# Testing OPENCART using Provengo
This directory contains the Provengo project for testing OPENCART.

## Running the tests
To run a single random test, run:
```shell 
java -jar Provengo.uber.jar run opencart
```

## Tool Documentation
See [Provengo README](opencart/README.md) for a short description of the tool and how to use it.

For a full documentation go to [https://docs.provengo.tech](https://docs.provengo.tech)

## How we created the test model:
1. We started by creating the following files: [behavior.js](opencart/spec/js/behavior.js),[actions.js](opencart/spec/js/actions.js), and [data.js](opencart/data/data.js).
2. We then ran the following command to generate the test model:
```shell
java -jar Provengo.uber.jar analyze -f pdf opencart   
```
3. We repeated steps 1-2 until we were satisfied with the generated model.
4. We used the following command to run the tests:
```shell
java -jar Provengo.uber.jar run --show-sessions opencart
```
5. We repeated steps 1-4 until we were satisfied with the result.
6. We recorded a video of the running tests and added it to the report. Since more than one browser session was opened, we recorded the entire screen. The link for the video is https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ua_Q7zWYBt-594Abo7Fs7HC3dCEBxcQh/view?usp=sharing.
7. We copied the generated graph of the model to a file named [model.pdf](submission-files/model.pdf) inside the submission-files directory.

### Test files
The test data is in [data.js](opencart/data/data.js), the set of possible actions is in [actions.js](opencart/spec/js/actions.js), and the behavior of the system is in [behavior.js](opencart/spec/js/behavior.js).
See the files for a detailed description.

## How we tested the system
See the last two lessons of the [Provengo Course](https://provengo.github.io/Course/Online%20Course/0.9.5/index.html) for a detailed explanation of the following steps.

1. We implemented a domain-specific ranking function at the beginning of the [ensemble-code.js](opencart/meta-spec/ensemble-code.js) file and updated the `rankingFunction` to use our function. We added a documentation comment that explains our function.
2. We sampled the state space of the system using the following command that created a [samples.json](opencart/products/run-source/samples.json) file:
```shell
java -jar Provengo.uber.jar sample --overwrite --size 10 opencart
```
3. Given this sample, we created an ensemble (test suite) using the following commands that created an [ensemble.json](opencart/products/run-source/ensemble.json) file:
```shell
java -jar Provengo.uber.jar ensemble --size 5 opencart
```
4. We repeated the last two steps, changing the two size parameters, until we were satisfied with the grade of the generated test suites.
5. We copied the [ensemble.json](opencart/products/run-source/ensemble.json) file to [domain-specific.json](submission-files/domain-specific.json).
6. We visualized the specification, and highlighted the traces in the optimized test suite create by the previous command and copied the output to [domain-specific.pdf](submission-files/domain-specific.pdf).
```shell
java -jar Provengo.uber.jar analyze -f pdf --highlight products/run-source/ensemble.json opencart
```
7. We ran the generated test suites using the following command:
```shell
java -jar Provengo.uber.jar run -s products/run-source/ensemble.json opencart 
```
8. We generated a report of the test-suite run and looked for errors. If errors were found and the reason was a bug in the model, we fixed the model and repeated the steps 2--7. If the reason was a bug in the system, we reported the bug by filling a bug report in the [README.md](../README.md) file of the root directory of the project. The report can be generated by running the following command:
```shell
java -jar Provengo.uber.jar report opencart
```
9. We repeated steps 1--8 for the two-way coverage criterion, where the json name of step 5 is [two-way.json](submission-files/two-way.json) and the pdf name of step 6 is [two-way.pdf](submission-files/two-way.pdf).
